Suggest to use secrets backend for variable when it contains sensitive data (#17319)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/best-practices.rst

---------

You should avoid usage of Variables outside an operator's ``execute()`` method or Jinja templates if possible,
as Variables create a connection to metadata DB of Airflow to fetch the value, which can slow down parsing and
place extra load on the DB.

Airflow parses all the DAGs in the background at a specific period.

> The default period is set using ``processor_poll_interval`` config, which is by default 1 second.
> During parsing, Airflow creates a new connection to the metadata DB for each DAG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default period is set using the ``processor_poll_interval`` config, which is 1 second by default.
During parsing, Airflow creates a new connection to the metadata DB for each DAG.
```

I think this reads better? It’s not related to this PR, but since we are modifying the line anyway, let’s improve it if we can.

Author: Yes, that does. Thanks!

    {{ var.json.<variable_name> }}

For security purpose, you're recommended to use the :ref:`Secrets Backend<secrets_backend_configuration>`
for any variable that contains sensitive data.

An alternative option is to use environment variables in the top-level Python code or use environment variables to
create and manage Airflow variables. This will avoid new connections to Airflow metadata DB every time

> Airflow parses the Python file. For more information, see: :ref:`managing_variables`.

Reviewer: What does “use environment variables in the top-level Python code” mean here?

Author: I think it means accessing the environment variables outside a task, as referred to [this](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/best-practices.html#top-level-python-code).

What do you think if we keep only this:
```suggestion
An alternative option is to use environment variables to create and manage Airflow variables.
This avoids new connections to Airflow metadata DB every time Airflow parses the
Python file. For more information, see: :ref:`managing_variables`.
```
since I think "environment variables in the top-level Python code" might be irrelevant to Airflow Variable?

Reviewer: Yeah that makes sense to me.

Reviewer 2: The idea here was that you could control the behaviour of top-level python code by setting "regular" environment variables and reading from those. I think we should generally discourage using Airflow Variables  at the top level of python code in Dag - (regardless if they are defined via ENV Vars or not). I think in some future version of Airflow, where we will convert access to variables into API calls, we will likely detect such access to Airflow Variables during parsing and either warn or block it. 

There is very little sense to use Airflow Variables in top-level code of DAGs- even if you make "requirement" to define them via variables, it's much simpler, explicit and straightforward to simply ... use the variables via os.environment and then they should not need to follow the _VAR convention. 

 So I think the proposed change is not what we intended to say here.

Author: Yeah, sounds great to me. ;)
